introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Welcome to Quotient AI
description: 'Introduction to Quotient AI'
icon: "hand-wave"
---

# 👋 Welcome to Quotient AI

Quotient AI is your go-to platform for **AI development and evaluation**, designed to help developers create, fine-tune, and evaluate AI models with ease. Whether you're a startup experimenting with cutting-edge AI solutions or a large enterprise focused on scaling your AI products, Quotient empowers you with tools to build high-quality, reliable AI systems quickly.

<Image src="../assets/general/quotient-app-landing-page.png" alt="Quotient AI Landing Page" />

## 🚀 Why Quotient AI?

Quotient takes the complexity out of AI evaluation. With features like **IQ**, the AI copilot for developers, and **PromptLab**, your prompt engineering playground, you’ll get:

- **Customizable evaluations** for AI models and prompts
- **Actionable insights** with AI-driven recommendations
- **Version control and orchestration** for evaluation management
- **Specialized datasets** that enhance your model performance

We’re not just an evaluation platform—we’re here to help you **accelerate the entire AI development lifecycle**. 

---

## 🧠 Key Features

### 🛠️ Quotient IQ: Your AI Engineer Copilot

Imagine having an expert assistant by your side, providing you with **real-time prompt suggestions** and helping you optimize for performance. IQ is built to boost productivity, offering **tailored recommendations** and learning from your feedback.

### 🧪 PromptLab: The Ultimate Playground

With **PromptLab**, you can create, test, and iterate on prompts using different models. Whether you’re working on a chatbot, a recommendation system, or a translation model, PromptLab makes it easy to test out ideas, improve your prompts, and save different evaluation artifacts automatically.
The playground is compatible with a diverse selection of models, featuring the latest offerings from providers such as OpenAI, Anthropic, Mistral, Google, Meta, and more.

We are continually enhancing the playground and rolling out new features. If you have any suggestions or requests, we’d love to hear from you! Feel free to [get in touch](mailto:contact@quotientai.co), and one of our founders will reach out to you!

Commit message:

mention q alpha and add link to SMELL

introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Welcome to Quotient AI
description: 'Introduction to Quotient AI'
icon: "hand-wave"
---

# 👋 Welcome to Quotient AI

Quotient AI is your go-to platform for **AI development and evaluation**, designed to help developers create, fine-tune, and evaluate AI models with ease. Whether you're a startup experimenting with cutting-edge AI solutions or a large enterprise focused on scaling your AI products, Quotient empowers you with tools to build high-quality, reliable AI systems quickly.

<Image src="../assets/general/quotient-app-landing-page.png" alt="Quotient AI Landing Page" />

## 🚀 Why Quotient AI?

Quotient takes the complexity out of AI evaluation. With features like **IQ**, the AI copilot for developers, and **PromptLab**, your prompt engineering playground, you’ll get:

- **Customizable evaluations** for AI models and prompts
- **Actionable insights** with AI-driven recommendations
- **Version control and orchestration** for evaluation management
- **Specialized datasets** that enhance your model performance

We’re not just an evaluation platform—we’re here to help you **accelerate the entire AI development lifecycle**. 

---

## 🧠 Key Features

### 🛠️ Quotient IQ: Your AI Engineer Copilot

Imagine having an expert assistant by your side, providing you with **real-time prompt suggestions** and helping you optimize for performance. IQ is built to boost productivity, offering **tailored recommendations** and learning from your feedback.

### 🧪 PromptLab: The Ultimate Playground

With **PromptLab**, you can create, test, and iterate on prompts using different models. Whether you’re working on a chatbot, a recommendation system, or a translation model, PromptLab makes it easy to test out ideas, improve your prompts, and save different evaluation artifacts automatically. The playground is compatible with a diverse selection of models, featuring the latest offerings from providers such as OpenAI, Anthropic, Mistral, Google, Meta, and more.

We are continually enhancing the playground and rolling out new features. If you have any suggestions or requests, we’d love to hear from you! Feel free to [get in touch](mailto:contact@quotientai.co), and one of our founders will reach out to you!

---

## 📰 Stay Tuned for More!

Check out our blog at [https://www.quotientai.co/](https://www.quotientai.co/) to stay updated on the latest trends in AI development and evaluation.

Quotient also brings you **Quotient Alpha**,a section of our platform where we focus on hacky, innovative research projects. Stay tuned for more releases in Quotient Alpha as we continue to push the boundaries of AI development! You can read about our latest project, a framework for aligning LLM-judges to human feedback, [here](https://www.quotientai.co/post/subject-matter-expert-language-liaison-smell-a-framework-for-aligning-llm-evaluators-to-human-feedback).
